Milestone Project 3
Prompt
This milestone project takes place at the end of the web engineer unit, and concludes the software development program. You will put into practice the skills you learned in courses 9 (Cybersecurity), 10 (Principles of Programming with Python), and 11 (Advanced Topics)¸ as well as the rest of the course.

Course map, highlighting the collection of courses 9-11 as precursors to milestone project 2.
Prompt: The Final Project!
This project is your choice. You will create an impressive application to add to your personal portfolio, but how you do that is up to you. It can be a group or individual project. Your project should center around your goals post-graduation and be a great addition to your personal portfolio website. What you do depends on what part of the industry you'd like to join, or what technologies you would like to work with. For example, front-end development, back-end development, fintech (financial technology), game development, and more.

But... What if I Need Some More Guidance?
Can't think of anything? Below are sample requirements for the third milestone project. As a default, let's assume most people would like full-stack web developer jobs and want to primarily show off front-end and back-end skills.

Requirements
General Requirements: All Project Types
This project cannot be part of a lab or assignment we've already done in class.
This project is group by default (no more than 4 people per group), but can be done individually if approved by instructor.
This project should feature user authentication (i.e., secure logins and passwords).
Effort must be spent on styling, appearance, and user experience.
This app must be tracked in GitHub, with a minimum of 25 commits.
Ideally, put your empty project up on GitHub on day one of development, and aim for multiple commits per day.
This app must be deployed somewhere.
The app should have a README.md file including what is referenced below in the application requirements.
Application Requirements
Your back-end uses Python or Node.
Your back-end uses Flask or Django (Python) or Express (Node).
Your front-end may use React, or another front-end framework (e.g., Vue, Angular), or a template language (EJS, Pug, Handlebars).
Your app must have a database that has at least two tables (SQL) or collections (Mongo).
Your database must support at least one type of database relationship between tables/collections.
This can be embedded or relational data in Mongo (An embedded collection will qualify as your second collection).
This can be a 1:M (one-to-many) or N:M (many-to-many) relationship between SQL tables.
Your app uses an ORM or ODM to interact with your database (e.g., Sequelize, PyMongo, SQLAlchemy, TypeORM, Mongoose).
This app must run in a web browser.
Your website should be responsive to screen size changes.
This means that your website should be viewable and usable on a mobile device or tablet via an internet browser. Text shouldn't be super tiny and layouts shouldn't exceed the screen size on smaller screens.
The app should have a README.md file including the following:
Describes the inspiration for the application.
Describes how to use the application.
Lists the technologies used to build the application.
Addresses any outstanding bugs or unfinished functionality.
Bonus Ideas
Use SASS for styling.
Create your project using TypeScript.
Use CircleCI for continuous integration.
Use at least one library, package, or technology that we haven't covered.
Remember that this project is centered around your goals post-graduation, so plan to create something that you will be proud to put on your personal portfolio.

Deliverables
A link to your app, which is deployed somewhere.
A link to your GitHub repository (or repositories if there are multiple), so we can see the progress on your app.
Grading Scale
Games will be graded on a 1-5 scale in each of the following domains:

Domain

What are we looking for?

User Experience

Was effort put into usability? Is this an intuitive app to use? Can I view it on mobile?

Functionality

Did the app reach MVP? Do all features work? Is it generally bug-free?

Workflow

Did you use GitHub properly? Is there a readme? Was the repo up on day one?

Code Style

Does the code follow best practices/naming conventions? Is it DRY?

Presentation

Was the project presented to the class? Is the app deployed where others can access?

The maximum score is 25 (achieved by getting a 5 in each of the domains). The minimum passing score is 15. For a more detailed explanation on what each score means, refer to the Grade Rubric.

Example Grade
Here is sample student Jane Lee's grade:

Grade rubric for sample student
Jane has done a great job improving her GitHub workflow from where it was at the beginning of the program. She got an impressive set of features and one of her stretch goals implemented! Unfortunately due to completing the stretch goal, the code style was ignored. She has conflicting naming conventions, few comments, and some of the code looks like it may have been copied and pasted. Due to time constraints, Jane wasn't able to get in as much user testing as she would have liked. Now that people are starting to use the app, she realizes that users aren't taking the path through her app she thought they would. Users of Jane's app are largely missing the stretch goal feature that she spent a lot of time on.

Grade Interpretations
We're expecting that these milestone projects will be candidates for your portfolio which you can show to a potential employer. You should assume any project with a limited time frame will need to be cleaned up, refactored, and DRYed out at a later time before it's ready to show others. Take note of code style improvements, commonly requested feature additions, and other suggestions to make your project the most impressive.

In the end, the project is a pass/fail grade - either you score 15 or above or you don't. The scoring system is to help you understand your feedback and how your project will be perceived by potential employers and other industry professionals. The closer the score is to 25, the closer to ready it is to be a portfolio project. The closer to 15 it is, the more polishing up it may need. Pay attention to areas where you scored 4 or lower and make sure you understand why.

Non-Passing Projects
If your project is scored at 14 or below, it is expected that you will be resubmitting at a later due date according to the directions in your syllabus. Please note that there may be a limited number of resubmissions allowed. This information will be relayed to you in writing. Because this is the last project in the course, accommodations may need to be made if the resubmission date would be post-graduation.

Tips on Getting Started
Thinking like a coder
Up to this point, some of the concepts you've learned may have seemed academic or theoretical. Now you're choosing what project to build and how to do it. For grading purposes, we've set a couple limits and goals for you, but this is generally a "real-life scenario". Don't forget your earlier training.

Break down large tasks into smaller ones.
Pseudocode!
Consider how you will store data associated with your application.
Remember that time spent planning will save you time later! If you are working in a group, remember that it is best practice to always peer review code before it is merged with the main branch. This will prevent your group from breaking your application.

Set up GitHub at the start
Even though you don't have anything to put into it yet, start out by making an empty git repository and then do all your work in there. Aim for multiple commits per day. Ideally commit after you finish any small feature. Also, consider making an outline for your README.md file as part of your planning process.

Commit early! Commit often!

Use those developer tools
Use console.log, alert, breakpoints, the inspector, and the debugger to get a glimpse of what's going on in your code. Know where to look to find errors and get used to interpreting common ones!

Get Inspired!
ColorMind- Make a Color Pallette from an Image
MyColor- Generate a Color Pallette based around one color
Canva- Lots of stuff including a color pallette generator
Unsplash- Free Stock Images
FAQ
Can I Work Individually?
Sure! You must inform your instructional team before the project starts.

Can I Make a Game?
Ultimately, we're here to support you in your education. If after getting advice from your instructor, you believe a game project would best serve your portfolio and your job search, we won't stand in the way!

Am I Allowed to Receive Help if I Get Stuck?
Absolutely! Your instructors will be available for questions during class time spent on projects and your associate instructions will be available during specified hours outside of class. Ask your instructional team if you've forgotten what these are.

Especially at this point in the course, try not to over-rely on help. We're not being lazy, we promise! We know that you are very close to graduation and want to make sure you have the tools and resources you need once you've graduated or entered your first developer job. When receiving help:

Make sure you understand the explanation for any code that someone else helps you write.
Make sure you could reproduce the solution without help.
Make a note of where you went wrong in your original attempt (this might include bookmarking some documentation).
What Kind of Help Will I Receive?
At this point in the program, you should have noticed a shift in the type of help that you need. If you compare yourself now to when you began the program, or even the first milestone project, you should find that your questions have become a little more difficult for your TAs to answer (ask them if you're in doubt)!.

You are becoming a self-sufficient programmer. Treat this as a practice run for after the program when you will be in charge of all your projects!

What if one group member isn't pulling their weight?
To start, try putting on your Project Management hat, and feel empowered to do what you can to mitigate interpersonal struggles within your group among your peers. However, we know that even the best managers sometimes need to escalate their issues. If someone in your group isn't doing their work and isn't attending group meetings, please have a discussion with your instructional staff, and they will be able to handle the issue.

The TA is too Busy! What Should I Do?
As in the past - simply let us know! A direct message will probably be a good way to do this if you don't feel comfortable doing so in person.